## Welcome Proteans!

This site contains all the info you need to prepare for your adventure.  Start with the Story
Synopsis below, then read as much or as little of the rest as you like.  The text will help you
figure out what's important to read and what's optional.

### Story Synopsis

You are a member of an isolated species known as the proteans.  Your kind are natural shapeshifters,
able to change into any form you can imagine, although more complicated forms can only be achieved
by the elders of your people.

You are durlans, the youths of the proteans.  This is not so much about physical age—your people do
not age as other species do, because you can always just change to a younger form—but rather about
relative inexperience.  As durlans, you cannot change into anything smaller than a cat, or larger
than a horse.  You can change into anything that is natural and solid (such as an animal, plant, or
rock), and you can change into anything man-made, but it will only be functional if you personally
know how to make that thing.  So you can turn into a chair, and people can sit on you, but if you
try to turn into a telescope, people won't be able to use you to see far away things.

The elders of the proteans are known as morphs, and they can turn into much smaller or much larger
forms, plus they have access to a wider variety of functional man-made objects (as their greater
experience has taught them how more such things function).  The truly ancient proteans are called
the eremain, and they can even take on non-solid forms, such as fire, wind, or clouds.  The eremain
are worshipped by some members of other species as powerful nature spirits, but to you and your
fellow durlans, they are just wise people who offer advice, wisdom, and, sometimes, a mission.

Your job, along with your fellow party members, is to go on missions assigned to you by the morphs,
or occasionally by the eremain.  The proteans are reclusive, but they try to stamp out evil where
they find it, believing that helping others helps everyone thrive.  You have worked together for
some time, so you all know each other pretty well, and you have some experience under your belt.  As
our story begins, you are summoned to appear before Inari, a powerful eremain ...

### DM Introduction

Hi, I'm Buddy, Perrin's father.  I'll be your DM, or Dungeon Master.  It will be my job to keep the
story moving, introduce the non-player characters, run the monsters, and generally be the referee.

There's lots of different ways to play D&D, and lots of different styles of DMing.  Just to let you
know, I favor a story-focussed approach, where the goal is to tell a really cool story that you will
remember for years to come.  Especially since this is a one-shot (that is, a self-contained
adventure designed to be run in one day), you don't have to worry about anything too bad happening
to your character.  We're just going to mess around and have fun with it.

### Character Creation

If you're experienced with D&D, feel free to make your character yourself.  If you're new to it,
don't worry: I will work with you to create something that you'll enjoy playing.  Or you can take a
middle approach: fill out as much of your character sheet as you want, and I'll help you with the
rest.  Whatever is most comfortable for you.

Although your species is set for you, because you are a shapeshifter you can feel free to look like
any other classic D&D humanoid that you like: human, elf, dwarf, halfling, dragonborn, tiefling,
etc.  Or any creature that _isn't_ from D&D.  Or anything you can imagine, as long as you stay with
the size guidelines.

If you want to read the [detailed character creation guidelines][CC], you can;
they will make the most sense if you know at least a little about D&D.



[CC]: character-creation.html
